Clicking the right mouse button on a component will display a pop-up menu of commands specific to that component.
You can open one of the last files you worked on by choosing it from the bottom of the file menu.
ConnexScript supports multiple statements on a line when the statements are separated by a semicolon ( ; ).
You can undo the last worksheet action by clicking the Undo menu item.
When a worksheet is paused, hovering the mouse over the input and output ports will show the current values; double-click to display vector or matrix values.
The ConnexScript for, while, or repeat-until statements can be used when iteration (looping) is needed in your program.
You can undock a dockable window by double clicking its border.
The Copy to Clipboard menu item will copy the graph component's current contents to the clipboard.
You can hide the complexities of a system by drag-selecting a group of components, clicking the right mouse button, and choosing Collapse. 
You can assign your own bitmaps to embedded worksheets. The bitmaps are saved as part of the system.
You can visually monitor the execution of each component by selecting the Highlight Components menu item.
Enter complex values in ConnexScript by appending an i or j to a constant value. For example x = 5.87i.
Clicking on an empty part of the worksheet and dragging the mouse will form a rectangle for selecting components.
You can only edit a MathConnex worksheet when the computation is stopped.  To stop a calculation click on the button with the red square on the toolbar.
If you're running out of space on a worksheet, click on the Zoom Out button on the toolbar to get a wider view.
When you save your own modules they will show up on the second tab in the MathConnex Explorer at the left of the MathConnex window.
To view more cells in the Constant or Inspector component, double-click on the component and then enlarge it by dragging the lower right corner.
To stop a calculation automatically wire in a stoplight as the last component in the calculation flow.
If you know JScript or VBScript you can add scripted OLE 2 components to your MathConnex worksheets; choose Scripted Object on the Insert menu.
To insert components into your worksheet, DRAG them from the component palettes.
The Axum, Excel and MATLAB components will work only if you have these applications installed on your machine.
To edit a Mathcad component in its own window, right-click on the component in your worksheet and choose View As Icon, then double-click to launch a Mathcad window.
To use the Graph component, feed it either one column of data (the y values) or a two-column matrix (x values and y values).
To edit a ConnexScript component, double click on it to bring up the script editor; when you're done click the Apply button and close the window.
To Edit a Mathcad or Excel component, double click on it; the Mathcad or Excel application will activate in place; when you're through, click outside the component.
